So if you're wanting to go down this
rabbit hole of synthesizing audio and
especially synthesizing music.
That's where you start to wanna learn
a bit more about the things like
the envelope, attack,
decay, sustain, release.
And also how do you actually layer
together these different synths to create
specific types of sounds.
And a really great resource for
that is learning synths by Ableton, and
I have the links in the the course repo as
well at the bottom and the resources page.
And it's a really fantastic online
digital book very interactive,
[SOUND] and showing some of the ideas that
I've talked about in terms of amplitude,
[SOUND] in terms of frequency and
things like that and pitch [SOUND] and
then also going into details
about how to use all these
things [SOUND] to create really rich
sounding electronics synthesizer.
[SOUND].
So I'll just go straight to a certain
chapter, let's just see here.
[SOUND].
You can start to see
some of these demos here.
They reproduce the old
school service analogue
synths that you might use
if you're a musician But,
using just entirely digital
Web Audio API sort of structure here.
Giving us controls over amplitude and
other parameters of the synths so
these parameters like brightness and
movement they define these parameters and
then for example this movement
parameter might be affecting
in tone it might be called
an LFO low frequency oscillator.
And that's what creates
these kind of back and
forth sounding wobbly
sounds that you get from
this movement parameter here [SOUND].
And something like brightness,
it's hard to say what that is exactly.
It could be chorus, it could be distortion
or something else that you could
probably achieve something similar just
using some of the effects here and
hooking up the wet parameter to a slider
like they have in Ableton here.
[SOUND] So there's a specific
few that I just wanna show,
if I can find it.
So yeah, there's a whole chapter on
envelopes, it's really fantastic.
And LFO's how to oscillate the sound.
But then they also have some recipes.
And some examples of
different sort of sounds and
how these sounds come together.
So let's say,
[MUSIC]
Something like a pluck bass.
And you can hear now how
changing this envelope changes
the synths, so
if we have a very long attack,
it's not even hitting the peak
of that signal because
the note is being turned off
before it hits the peak.
So let's give it a short attack
[MUSIC]
And the decay is once it hits
the peak does it go down,
or how fast does it go down?
[MUSIC]
Gives it a bit more of a plucky feeling.
And the sustain is,
does it go down all the way to zero or
does it does it stay at full volume?
And just by changing this envelope,
you can really create some
drastically different sounds here and
we haven't even really changed the synth
at all we're just changing the envelope.
There's also effects we
can add like this low pass
filter is actually a great
visualization of how a low pass
filter looks if we were to graph
it in a spectrum analyzer.
[MUSIC]
The lower this value is,
the less that we're letting through.
The less of the frequencies that
we're letting through in the higher,
the more relatable.
[MUSIC]
And even those modulators, so
even these kind of allophones and
these other things that are filtering,
they can also have envelopes.
And you can start to see how layering
all these different features together.
Start to create this.
[MUSIC]
Kind of playground where you begin
to tweak little variables and
find something that's good.
And it's really nice to be able to play
with something like this which is a system
where you can change the envelope,
you can see the envelope,
you have all the settings here.
And then once you're happy with things,
you could potentially bring these into
your code into your tone JS code.
It might take a little bit of time to
figure out the exact way to try and
reproduce some of these scents.
But a lot of this Ableton learning
synths guide is just using
the same types of Web Audio API's
that we've been exploring today.
I'm not sure if they use tone JS.
I think there's a chance they might, or
they might just have their
own web audio API interface.
But from what I've seen, all of this
should be very possible with something
like tone JS if it just Take a bit
of time to figure out what it
is that they're they're doing to
create these types of oscillators and
how they're layering them together
[MUSIC]
[SOUND] So just to find another one
that's a little different here let's see.
These are using just
different envelopes again
[MUSIC]
And you might find a few leads or
a few sounds keys that are using multiple
oscillators, or
different types of oscillators.
[MUSIC]
Anyways, this site is really fun to
just go through the site and just like,
see what you can do and see what you
can hear and how you can change it.
And then even just go to this playground
and really just like, dive into doing your
own synths and making them in different
ways and just playing around here.
So I highly recommend checking this out.
Just like going through the guide, and
just having fun with this amazing resource